{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Abstract\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\qj

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Authorship attribution is the problem of analyzing and characterizing an individual\'92s writing style in order to determine the most likely author for an unlabeled body of natural language text. In recent years, the problem has been approached from a statistical angle by employing deep learning techniques. This senior project aims to explore various, potentially deep, learning models to solve the authorship attribution in conjunction with a number of linguistic methods in order to understand what governs writing style and what features play significant roles in distinguishing different authors. In addition, it hopes to preliminarily evaluate the efficiency-complexity trade-off of deep learning models against traditional probabilistic approaches often used in linguistics. \
\
\
Research\
- Tutorials (MNIST in Python)\
- Word representation: word2vec, n-grams (whatever humanities in R talked about\'85)\
- Existing methods\
\
Implementation\
- Preprocessing in spaCy\
- Simple probabilistic models\
- Deep learning attempts\
\
Technologies used\
Python 2 & 3\
Caffe\
Gutenberg Project\
Theano\
\
\
\
\
\
\
Insert the abstract here. The abstract should summarize your research in clear and concise language. You should write your abstract with the idea that it may be the only section that will actually be read and the sole representation of your research. \
\
Some primary factors that you should consider for the abstract:\
\
Motivation: Why do we care?\
Problem statement: What are you trying to address?\
Approach: How will you address the problem?\
Results: What is the answer or expected answer?\
Conclusions: What are the implications?}